Revisit TTL considerations (#61)
each/draft-aname: draft-ietf-dnsop-aname.md

 1. If one ore more address records are found, replace the owner of
    the target address records with the owner of the ANAME record.

>     Set the TTL to the minimum of all TTLs of intermediate records.

Reviewer: I realized after reading https://github.com/each/draft-aname/issues/30#issuecomment-488583324 that I misunderstood what was meant here by "intermediate records". The document should be updated to clarify (ideally both here and in Terminology), but also I disagree with exclusion of the ANAME itself. Just like `cname.example. 30 CNAME 60-second-ttl.example.` means that repeat queries for cname.example must not be fully answered from cache after 30 seconds, so should `aname.example. 30 ANAME 60-second-ttl.example.` mean that repeat queries for aname.example must not be fully answered from cache after 30 seconds, and therefore that the TTL of substitute records such as `aname.example. A 192.0.2.1` must not exceed the TTL of the ANAME responsible for them.

Author: First of all, it would be better if this discussion was held on the dnsop mailing list.

Second: Good point. To me intermediate records are records that are encountered when performing the ANAME resolution. The lookup encountered a CNAME or another ANAME. The TTLs of these intermediate records need to be taken into account when determining the final TTL of the address records to be substituted.

Your comment made me realize that there are two types of ANAME records: One that initializes a target lookup and others that are encountered during the target lookup. I think terminology for intermediate records and add text about whether the initial ANAME record should or should not be considered an intermediate record makes sense.

I still believe that the TTL on the initial ANAME should not be taken into the equation, but TTLs of intermediate ANAME records should. The reason for this is as I mentioned on the mailing list, the ANAME record may have different lifetime properties than its corresponding address records. Making them match means you will lose that.

Author: @gibson042 I pushed a commit to define intermediate records. Let me know if this looks good to you, or if you would like to see changes/additions, please send text :)

Author: Also, I haven't heard a counter argument against excluding the "initial ANAME" TTL, does that mean you agree to that behavior, or...?

Reviewer: > I pushed a commit to define intermediate records. Let me know if this looks good to you

Thank you, LGTM.

> I haven't heard a counter argument against excluding the "initial ANAME" TTL, does that mean you agree to that behavior

I do not agree with excluding the "initial ANAME" TTL, and my counterargument remains unchanged: 

> Just like `cname.example. 30 CNAME 60-second-ttl.example.` means that repeat queries for cname.example must not be fully answered from cache after 30 seconds [_but must instead be sent to name servers authoritative for cname.example in case the CNAME has been updated or removed_], so should `aname.example. 30 ANAME 60-second-ttl.example.` mean that repeat queries for aname.example must not be fully answered from cache after 30 seconds [_but must instead be sent to name servers authoritative for aname.example in case the ANAME has been updated or removed_], and therefore that the TTL of substitute records such as `aname.example. A 192.0.2.1` must not exceed the TTL of the ANAME responsible for them.

I'd like to see the TTL minimized over the entire chain:
```suggestion
    Set the TTL to the minimum of the ANAME TTL, the TTL of each intermediate record, and the TTL of the target address records.
```

Reviewer 2: I agree with @gibson042. if a query for example/A is answered via example/ANAME, which has a 30 second TTL, then there might be a different answer 31 seconds from now, so we should not answer from cache at that point.

Author: Right, I see now I was focused on not tying them together, because you want the ANAME TTL to be longer than the target address records TTL, but we are only updating (minimizing) the TTL of the address records. 

I am convinced now, and shall update the text.

Author: Actually, if the ANAME record had expired from cache, it cannot be answered from cache. Despite the address records are in cache for a long time, the resolver needs to look up the ANAME record first. So this can not happen anyway.

Reviewer 3: FWIW I too think the initial ANAME TTL should be in the MIN(...) set.  I'd be quite surprised as an operator to discover that it wasn't.

Reviewer: @matje This matters for originating clients. If an ANAME-ignorant caching resolver sends a request for aname.example and the receiving resolver has cached `aname.example. 30 ANAME 60-second-ttl.example.` (just refreshed) and `60-second-ttl.example. 42 AAAA 2001:db8::1` (aged down from 60 seconds), then it should synthesize `aname.example. 30 AAAA 2001:db8::1` rather than `aname.example. 42 AAAA 2001:db8::1` because the server for aname.example has only guaranteed that its address records should correspond with those of 60-second-ttl.example for 30 seconds (as indicated by the ANAME TTL), which means that synthesizing a response cacheable for longer than that (i.e., the 42-second remaining TTL of target records) is unjustified.

Sibling address records are served from authoritative servers with a
fixed TTL. Normally this TTL is expected to be the same as the target
address records' TTL; however the exact mechanism for obtaining the
target is unspecified, so cache effects, following ANAME and CNAME
chains, or deliberate policies might make the sibling TTL smaller.

> This means that when adding A and AAAA records into the zone as a

Reviewer 4: Should it be `or`?

Author: Yes :)

result of ANAME processing, the TTL to use is at most that of the
TTL of the address target records. If you use a higher value,

> this will stretch the TTL which is undesired.

Reviewer 4: but it could be also shorter? `min(ANAME_TTL, TARGET_TTL)`?

Author: It could be shorter, but the main reason is that the RRset is retrieved from a cache and its TTL was already decremented (what Tony calls a nearly-equal TTL).

the end-to-end TTL will be nearing twice the target address record TTL.

## ANAME chains

ANAME sibling address record substitution is made slightly more
complicated by the requirement to follow chains of ANAME and/or CNAME
records. The TTL of the substituted address records is the minimum
of TTLs of all the intermediate records. This stops the end-to-end
TTL from being inflated by each ANAME in the chain.

## ANAME substitution inside the name server

When ANAME substitution is performed inside the authoritative name
server (as described in #alternatives) or in the resolver (as
described in #resolver) the end-to-end TTL will actually be just
the target address record TTL.

An authoritative server that has control over its resolver can use
a cached target address RRset and decremented TTL in the response
to the client rather than using the original target address records'
TTL. It SHOULD however not use TTLs in the response that are nearing
zero to avoid query bunching (#bunching).

A resolver that performs ANAME substitution is able to get the
original TTL from the authoritative name server and use its own
cache to store the substituted address records with the appropriate

> TTL, therefor honoring the target address records TTL.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
TTL, thereby honoring the TTL of target address records.
```

with a fixed TTL, this means that the end-to-end TTL will be the
target address record TTL (which determines when the sibling address
records are updated) plus the sibling address record TTL (which
determines when end-user caches are updated). Since the sibling address
record TTL is derived from the target address records' original TTL,
the end-to-end TTL will be nearing twice the target address record TTL.

## ANAME chains

ANAME sibling address record substitution is made slightly more
complicated by the requirement to follow chains of ANAME and/or CNAME
records. The TTL of the substituted address records is the minimum

> of TTLs of all the intermediate records. This stops the end-to-end

Reviewer: ```suggestion
of TTLs of all the intermediate records and the target address records. This stops the end-to-end
```
